FinTrack v1.0 (FT1)

Introduction

One of the big incentives to take CS50's Web Programming is to harness the power and flexibility of Django and Javascript blended together. 
What better way to spin out useful apps for everyday life. This application is the first of many which is a product of that philosophy. 
It is a Financial Tracker. It simply records, tracks, and then displays back to the user, useful views of the user's finanaces. 

Users can view historical transaction data by Month, Year, or over the entire lifetime of the applications use. Users can view the information both
in a table and in a pie or bar chart. Users may add, delete, update, or view any transaction. Users can specify a period to view transactions (delineated by month/year).

One of the challenges of a application such as this is retrieving data from financial instituions. A bit of research shows that banks offer a number of different ways users
can access their financial data. Some (but not all) institutions offer API's with which users can download the data. This would be the preferred access. However, many 
smaller institutions rely on more universal low-tech solutions such a comma separated lists (CSV). The CSV seems to be the lowest common denominator. It is because of the format's 
ubiquity that it was chosen as the primary method of automated data entry rather than creating some sort of mock API similar to the Project 3 (Mail). Of course, entries can be 
added one by one (but a very tedious chore). A sample CSV file is included in the project to be used for testing.

Distintivity and Complexity Requirements

It would be difficult to avoid all overlap with previous assignments when creating a application of this nature. However, a number of distinct 
features are presented in this application. To enumerate a few:
	
	- Graphics 
		The program features graphical components to help users to visual the data. These components are adaptations of a graphing library provided by Google Charts 
		(https://developers.google.com/chart/). These components were fairly easy to incorporate and provide a way to	quickly evaluate the data presented. Users may toggle between 
		a pie chart and a bar graph. The graphs and chart each had to accomodate a variety of views. It was necessary to make the visuals flexible enough to handle the 
		size of the data sets. For instance, a view in which the user can look at all bank transactions over the lifetime of the use of the application had to be 
		capable of displaying categories such that they were distiguishable from neighboring elements. For this purpose, a bar graph that scales based on the number of transactions in 
		the data set is provided (though the option to view the data via a pie chart is still available).
		
	- Parsing
		CSV parsing offered the opportunity to work with Python's built-in string library and regex support. 
		
	- Working with files
		A utility to upload and save documents is provided. Files are collected in a local directory to serve as a financial document repository.

Project Files 

Below are files created for this project in addition to files which were generated by the Django which contain significant
	modifications.
	
		proj5FinTracker/
			forms.py
				contains Django forms:
					InputBankStatementForm - allow user to upload a document
					FindByDateForm - text box to input a date which is used to find a range of transactions
					TransactionForm - group of text boxes used to gather information on transactions for adding to the database
				
			models.py	
				BankTransaction - model to hold a financial transaction from a bank
				User - model to hold user information
				FileStorage - bank documents in CSV format
			
			urls.py
				url mapping
			
			views.py
				different views to handle a range of functionality
			
		proj5FinTracker/templates/proj5FinTracker
			html pages
				index.html - home page
				layout.html - template to hold common elements
				login.html/register.html - authentication/regristraion pages
				singlePageTransactions.html - main container for the application
			
		proj5FinTracker/static/proj5FinTracker
			input.js: 	JS code to upload documents and call csv parsing functions
			sstrans.js:	JS code to support single page application - this file is the heart of the front end of the project.
						This file keeps track of displaying views, handles graphics, and provides interfaces to the backend.
			
				
3. How to install/run
	Windows:
	- clone repository to a local folder
	- open command line in newly created folder
	- retrieve dependencies
		type 'pip install -r requirements.txt' at the prompt
	- initialize the DB - enter the following commands:
		type 'python manage.py makemigrations'
		and  'python manage.py migrate'
	- create a local admin
		type 'python manage.py createsuperuser'
	- start server
		type 'python manage.py runserver'
		
	navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8000 and register as a user
		
				
		
		

	
 
		